take one machinist who can visualize and
build just about anything add in his
wife who just happens to make a tasty
loaf of whole wheat bread now at the
desire to put a hand-powered grain mill
in her own kitchen work out a few
details and what do you get the grain
maker mill once the first grain maker
mill was a reality Randy and Bonnie
Jones couldn't keep it to themselves
almost everyone who sees this powerhouse
in action wants one of their own from
the initial concept to today's bright
red powder-coated finished product this
powerful little grain mill is a made in
Montana success story
thousands of grain maker Mills are hard
at work in kitchens around the globe
every one of them crafted and hand-built
in a family-owned and operated Montana
shop the grain maker comes complete with
everything you need to start grinding
your own flour cereal nuts or seeds all
you add is food grade raw material
here's how your mill is built first of
all the grain maker is formed of welded
steel not cast for strength and
durability you get two augers to move
the product smoothly to the grinding
burrs for larger foodstuff the grain
breaker auger is turned from a solid bar
of stainless steel a second coil auger
is included for use when grinding
smaller seeds and grains the grinding
burrs are meticulously shaped of
hardened machined alloy steel in our own
shop a click and lock knob lets you
adjust the finished product from very
fine flour to crack cereals nut butters
and everything in between whatever
setting you use the knob locks in place
assuring you the consistency will not
change the large flywheel makes this
male easy to turn and accepts a V belt
if you want to motorized or use pedal
power we'll show you how that's done in
a moment a long handle gives you more
leverage so it's easier to turn the mill
the shaped rotating hickory wood handle
feels great in your hand the mill is
well balanced so it will stand on its
own but you must both a machine to a
sturdy surface or use the optional clamp
before you begin grinding the hopper
holds four cups
enough grain to make flour for two
loaves of bread add a personal touch
with up to thirty letters and spaces
make it mom's mill or happy anniversary
2010 or any combination of letters and
numbers you choose finally the mills are
powder coated a bright shiny red for a
durable easy to clean finish every grain
maker mill comes with a lifetime
warranty and a 30-day guarantee of
satisfaction mill shipped a rep from our
own shop here in Montana to your door
when you order you are talking directly
with us the manufacturer we're happy to
answer your questions and help you get
started now let's explore alternate
power we've had so many requests for
pedal power that grain maker now offers
a kit to help you use any 28 inch
bicycle to power the mill the kit
includes everything you need for this
very easy conversion and for those of
you who want to motorized we work
closely with bode motors to design a
motor that slips directly on the shaft
of our grain maker without belts or
pulleys this motor turns at just 65 rpms
so your grains are not subject to a lot
of heat if you'd like to use your own
1725 rpm motor a very common size we
sell an adapter kit to slow that motor
down to under 100 rpms
a much safer speed for grains our kit
includes instructions and everything you
need now what will you grind our
customers grind wheat oats corn rye rice
coffee flax seeds peanuts dried beans
and other dried foods they're always
experimenting with new things and that
leads us to why people grind their own
people choose the grain maker mill for
any number of reasons some families are
dealing with food allergies and need to
produce trustworthy gluten free or wheat
free flours others may want to be sure
they're serving their families the
freshest most wholesome foods available
they grind flour right before it is used
or the add ground legumes to grain to
boost protein with a grain maker mill
the possibilities are endless